Managed Elastic Agent through helm chart install updated (#1370)
elastic/docs-content: reference/fleet/example-kubernetes-fleet-managed-agent-helm.md

---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/fleet/current/example-kubernetes-fleet-managed-agent-helm.html
applies_to:
  stack: ga 8.18
---

# Example: Install Fleet-managed Elastic Agent on Kubernetes using Helm [example-kubernetes-fleet-managed-agent-helm]

This example demonstrates how to install a {{fleet}}-managed {{agent}} on a {{k8s}} system using a Helm chart, collect {{k8s}} metrics and logs using the [Kubernetes Integration](integration-docs://reference/kubernetes/index.md), and send the data to an {{es}} cluster in {{ecloud}} for visualization in {{kib}}.

Although this tutorial uses an {{ech}} deployment, the same steps can be adapted for other deployment types. For self-managed, {{eck}}, or {{ece}} deployments, you might need to provide the {{fleet}} Server CA certificate during the {{agent}} installation, as outlined below.

For an overview of the {{agent}} Helm chart and its benefits, refer to [Install {{agent}} on Kubernetes using Helm](/reference/fleet/install-on-kubernetes-using-helm.md).

This guide takes you through these steps:

> * [Installation overview](#overview)

Reviewer: this is not a step. consider dropping

* [Add the Elastic Helm repository](#preparations)
* [Create a {{fleet}} policy and install {{agent}}](#agent-fleet-managed-helm-example-install-agent)
* [Install the Kubernetes integration](#agent-fleet-managed-helm-example-install-integration)
* [Tidy up](#agent-fleet-managed-helm-example-tidy-up)

## Prerequisites [agent-fleet-managed-helm-example-prereqs]

To get started, you need:

* A local install of the [Helm](https://helm.sh/) {{k8s}} package manager.
* An [{{ech}}](https://cloud.elastic.co/registration?page=docs&placement=docs-body) {{es}} cluster on version 8.18 or higher, with an [Integrations Server](/deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/ec-customize-deployment-components.md#ec_integrations_server) component included.
* An active {{k8s}} cluster.

> ## Installation overview [overview]

Reviewer: I like this little overview 👍

The installation and configuration steps shown in this example deploys the following components to monitor your Kubernetes cluster:

* A default installation of [`kube-state-metrics` (KSM)](https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics), configured as a dependency of the Helm chart. KSM is required by the Kubernetes integration to collect cluster-level metrics.

> * A group of {{agent}}s deployed as a [Kubernetes DaemonSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/), connected to {{fleet}}, and configured through a {{fleet}} policy to collect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A group of {{agent}}s deployed as a [Kubernetes DaemonSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/), connected to {{fleet}}, and configured through a {{fleet}} policy to collect the following metrics and logs:
```

Author: added locally

By default, all resources are installed in the namespace defined by your current `kubectl` context. You can override this by specifying a different namespace using the `--namespace` option during installation.

::::{note}
The proposed approach of a single {{agent}} DaemonSet to collect all metrics works well for small to medium-sized {{k8s}} clusters. 

For larger clusters, or when kube-state-metrics (KSM) metrics collection becomes a performance bottleneck, we recommend a more scalable architecture: move the KSM metric collection to a separate set of agents deployed as sidecars alongside KSM, with autosharding enabled.

This can be easily implemented with the Helm chart. For details, refer to the [KSM autosharding example](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent/examples/fleet-managed-ksm-sharding).
::::

% we will uncomment the next line when the use cases are documented in the landing page :)
% For other architectures and use cases, refer to [Advanced use cases](./install-on-kubernetes-using-helm.md#advanced-use-cases).

> ## Add the Elastic Helm repository [preparations]

Reviewer: Consider numbering the steps that need to be done in a specific order.

> # Example: Install Fleet-managed Elastic Agent on Kubernetes using Helm [example-kubernetes-fleet-managed-agent-helm]

Reviewer: I'd suggest:

```stack: ga 8.18
deployment:
  ech:
```

and possibly say "for {{stack}} versions 8.17 and earlier, <explanation>. <Link to older docs>."

>The instructions are considering a ECH deployment as a destination but it could also work with an on-premises / self-managed deployment and even ECE (this might require to add the CA certificate of the fleet server, depending on the environment) -> How would you articulate that nicely?

I'd explain this in the tutorial overview (maybe without hinting at the workarounds for other types). ideally the tutorial can be made more generic in the future

> # Example: Install Fleet-managed Elastic Agent on Kubernetes using Helm [example-kubernetes-fleet-managed-agent-helm]

Author: I have added a paragraph trying to make the content agnostic to deployment type, as this is more about installing agents on kubernetes than if the destination is ECH, ECE, ECK, Serverless or self-managed. This guide should be valid for all deployment types, even if in the example we use ECH as the destination.

The added paragraph is:

> Although this tutorial uses an Elastic Cloud Hosted deployment, the same steps can be adapted for other deployment types. For self-managed, Elastic Cloud on Kubernetes, or Elastic Cloud Enterprise deployments, you might need to provide the Fleet Server CA certificate during the Elastic Agent installation, as outlined below.

There's nothing more than that for other deployment types I'd say.

Let me know your thoughts and feel free to do a final review before merging :)

3. In the **Add agent** UI, specify a policy name and select **Create policy**. Leave the **Collect system logs and metrics** option selected.
4. Scroll down in the **Add agent** flyout to the **Install Elastic Agent on your host** section.
5. Select the **Linux TAR** tab and copy the values for `url` and `enrollment-token`. You’ll use these when you run the `helm install` command.
6. Open a terminal shell on your local system where the Helm tool is installed and you have access to the {{k8s}} cluster.
7. Copy and prepare the command to install the chart:

    ```sh
    helm install demo elastic/elastic-agent \
    --set agent.fleet.enabled=true \
    --set system.enabled=true \
    --set agent.fleet.url=<Fleet-URL> \ # Substitute Fleet-URL with the URL that you copied earlier
    --set agent.fleet.token=<Fleet-token> \ # Substitute Fleet-token with the enrollment token that you copied earlier.
    --set agent.fleet.preset=perNode
    ```

>     Note that the command has these properties:

Reviewer: if you want to leave this list here, we can drop `note that` 

```suggestion
    The command has these properties:
```

Author: updated locally, thanks!

    ```sh
    helm install demo elastic/elastic-agent \
    --set agent.fleet.enabled=true \
    --set agent.fleet.url=<Fleet-URL> \ # Substitute Fleet-URL with the URL that you copied earlier
    --set agent.fleet.token=<Fleet-token> \ # Substitute Fleet-token with the enrollment token that you copied earlier.
    --set agent.fleet.preset=perNode
    ```

    Note that the command has these properties:

    * `helm install`: Runs the Helm CLI install tool. Use `helm upgrade` to modify or update an existing release.
    * `demo`: The name for this specific installation of the chart, known as the **release name**. You can choose any name you like.
    * `elastic/elastic-agent`: The name of the chart to install, using the format `<repository>/<chart-name>`.
    * `--set agent.fleet.enabled=true`: Enables {{fleet}}-managed {{agent}}, which is disabled (`false`) by default.
    * `--set agent.fleet.url=<Fleet-URL>`: Specifies the address where {{agent}} connects to {{fleet}} Server in your {{ecloud}} deployment.
    * `--set agent.fleet.token=<Fleet-token>`: Sets the enrollment token that {{agent}} uses to authenticate with {{fleet}} Server.

>     * `--set agent.fleet.preset=perNode`: Runs the agent as a `DaemonSet`, to collect node-level metrics and logs. Refer to [](install-on-kubernetes-using-helm.md) for more details and use cases for this parameter.

Author: what do you mean? I'm not sure I'm following you :)

4. Scroll to the bottom of **Add Kubernetes integration** page. Under **Where to add this integration?** select the **Existing hosts** tab. On the **Agent policies** menu, select the agent policy that you created previously in the [Install {{agent}}](#agent-fleet-managed-helm-example-install-agent) steps.

    You can leave all of the other integration settings at their default values. For details about the available inputs and data sets, refer to the [Kubernetes integration](integration-docs://reference/kubernetes/index.md) documentation.

    ::::{important}
    All inputs under the **Collect Kubernetes metrics from kube-state-metrics** section default to `kube-state-metrics:8080` as the destination host. This works if you deployed KSM (kube-state-metrics) alongside {{agent}} during the chart installation, which is the default behavior, as both components are installed in the same namespace.

    If your KSM instance runs in a different namespace than {{agent}}, or if it uses a different service name, update the `host` setting in each data set of the integration to point to the KSM service.
    ::::

> 5. Click **Save and continue**. When prompted, select to **Add Elastic Agent later** since you’ve already added it using Helm.

Reviewer: avoid `since` - can be confusing for esl 

```suggestion
5. Click **Save and continue**. When prompted, select **Add Elastic Agent later**, because you’ve already added the agent using Helm.
```

release "demo" uninstalled
```

## Next steps

> For full details about using the {{agent}} Helm chart refer to the [{{agent}} Helm Chart Readme](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For full details about using the {{agent}} Helm chart, refer to the [{{agent}} Helm Chart Readme](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent).
```

> Refer also to the [examples](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent/examples) section of the GitHub repository for advanced use cases, such as integrating {{agent}}s with [KSM autosharding](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent/examples/fleet-managed-ksm-sharding), or configuring [mutual TLS authentication](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent/examples/fleet-managed-certificates) between {{agent}}s and the {{fleet}} Server.

Reviewer: each paragraph should be standalone in these next steps sections unless they really depend on each other

```suggestion
Refer to the [examples](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent/examples) section of the GitHub repository for advanced use cases, such as integrating {{agent}}s with [KSM autosharding](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent/examples/fleet-managed-ksm-sharding), or configuring [mutual TLS authentication](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/helm/elastic-agent/examples/fleet-managed-certificates) between {{agent}}s and the {{fleet}} Server.
```
